Banquet is an EATS client designed to ease the keying of entities in
one or more TEI XML files. It operates only on existing name markup,
but allows multiple name elements to be handled with a single
lookup. It is, to that extent, a batch process.

Banquet is a graphical application.


        Application layout

The Banquet GUI consists primarily of two windows: the main
application window that lists the open files and the name markup
within them, and the name lookup form.


    Main window

The list of name markup in the open documents can be viewed from
several perspectives, each corresponding to a tab in the
display. These perspectives are each an ordering and/or filtering of
the underlying data only.

The names displayed can be filtered by entering text into the text box
above the tabbed display. This will reduce the set of names displayed
to only those containing the text entered.

The four perspectives on the list of names are:

Names

  This perspective lists the names, and within each name lists the
  file(s) in which they occur. Each name is broken down into keyed and
  unkeyed instances.

Files

  This perspective lists the open file(s), and within each file the
  names found within that file. Each name is broken down into keyed
  and unkeyed instances.

Keys

  This perpsective lists the keys used in the open file(s), and within
  each key lists the file(s) in which it occurs. Within each file are
  listed the name instances that use that key.

Selections

  This perspective lists the name instances that are currently
  selected by the user.


    Lookup window

[Repeat information from Java lookup client documentation. The two
interfaces are not quite the same; Banquet's GUI should be brought
into line with the other.]


        Application functionality

Names to be keyed are marked using the checkboxes. Marking an item
which has children will automatically select the descendants, except
for those names that are already keyed. When at least one name has
been marked, and a marked item is selected (highlighted), pressing
Control-L will open the lookup window. When an entity is selected from
the lookup, or a new entity created, all of the marked names will be
keyed with the key for that entity.

Instead of keying a name, the name markup may be removed from the XML
file (in the case of the markup being incorrect). After marking the
offending names, pressing Control-D will remove the markup.

