                EATS oXygen plugin

The EATS oXygen plugin is a tool for performing searches across the
entities in an EATS server instance, creating new entities, and
marking up TEI documents with refed name markup, all within the
oXygen XML editor.

Its use is straightforward. The user selects a piece of text within
the editor (this text may contain markup, provided the text would be
well-formed if wrapped in an element) and activates the plugin. The
plugin window appears, with the "display name" text field prepopulated
with the selected text (minus any markup).

[* screenshot here *]

The user may then modify the form fields in the search pane (on the
left of the window), perform a search on the contents of the name
field(s), or create a new entity with the details as specified in the
form.

On selecting an existing entity, or creating a new entity, the
selected text in oXygen is replaced by that text wrapped in a TEI name
element, with a ref attribute set to the ref associated with the
entity.

If the selected text consists entirely of a single TEI name element,
then no new name element is created, but rather the existing element
has its type and ref added or changed, as appropriate, to those of the
chosen entity.


        Search Form

The search form, on the left of the plugin window, consists of text
fields and select boxes to specify information about the name/entity
being searched for or created. Each of these is described below.


Authority:

  This is an informational field and cannot be edited. It displays the
  name of the authority associated with the actions and information of
  the plugin. It reflects the authority that is set as the user's
  default in their user profile on the EATS server.


Display name:

  This field represents a name (whether partial, complete, or a
  combination of multiple names associated with the entity) of the
  entity when a search is made. A search uses only the text in this
  field, and the text in any name part fields (see below); no other
  information, including entity type, is used to limit the search
  results.

  When an entity is created, the text in this field becomes the
  display form of the name in the EATS record. The display form gives
  the name as it should appear, in full. It should be specified when
  there are no applicable name parts, or if the name is too
  complicated to be correctly constructed from the name parts by the
  EATS system. Having a display name does not preclude having name
  parts specified, but in either case the display form is the form of
  the name that will be displayed in any context.


Entity type:

  The type of the entity. While an entity may be assigned multiple
  entity types in the web editing interface, the plugin allows one and
  only one to be selected. The selected value is used to determine the
  value of the type attribute, or the specific name element, that is
  created in the TEI document.

  This field is only relevant when creating a new entity; it has no
  effect on the search results.


Name type:

  The type of the name. This is only relevant when creating a new
  entity; it has no effect on the search results.


Language:

  The language of the name, as a whole. This is only relevant when
  creating a new entity; it has no effect on the search results.


Script:

  The script of the name, as a whole. This is only relevant when
  creating a new entity; it has no effect on the search results.


Name parts:

  The form contains a text field For each name part type associated
  with the authority in the EATS system. The text in these fields is
  used when searching, and forms part of the name when a new entity is
  created.


Multiple searches, using different search terms, may be performed in
order to be sure that the entity isn't in the EATS system before
creating a new entity.

Changing the data in the form has absolutely no effect on the contents
of the TEI document being edited in oXygen; it only changes what is
searched for, and the details of any new entity that is created in the
EATS system..


        Search Results

When a search is performed, any results are shown in the results panel
on the right of the window. The number of results is shown in the
status bar at the bottom of the window. The major details of each
entity result is shown in the top part of the panel, in columns that
can be sorted and reordered with respect to each other.

If a row in the results panel is selected, further details of the
entity are shown in the box below the results.

If a result row is activated (eg, by double-clicking it), the plugin
window closes and the selected text in oXygen is replaced by that text
wrapped in a TEI name element, with a ref attribute set to the ref
associated with the activated entity.


        Creating a New Entity

When there is no matching entity in the EATS system, a new entity must
be created. All of the information in the search form becomes part of
the created record. The new entity is automatically given a new
authority record which carries the ref used in the TEI name markup. On
creating an entity, the plugin window disappears.


         Editing an Entity

An entity listed in the search results may contain incorrect or
incomplete information. The edit entity toolbar button opens the
editing web page for the selected entity.


        Configuring the Plugin

Before the plugin can be used, it must be configured. The base URL of
an EATS server must be specified, along with a username and password
for that system.

[* other options to link specific entity types to TEi elements? *]
